.TH "RPM misc options" 8
.SH NAME rpm \- lesser need options for rpm(8)

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-predefine\fR='\fIMACRO EXPR\fB'\fR
Defines \fIMACRO\fR with value \fIEXPR\fR. before loading macro files.

.SH Switching off features
.TP
\fB\-\-color [never|auto|always]\fR
Use terminal colors for highlighting error and debug message. Default is  turning colors on for ttys only (\fBauto\fR).
.TP

\fB\-\-nocontexts\fR
Disable the SELinux plugin if available. This stops the plugin from setting SELinux contexts for files and scriptlets.
.TP
\fB\-\-noglob\fR
Do not glob arguments when installing package files.
.TP
\fB\-\-nocaps\fR
Don't verify capabilities of files.
.TP
\fB\-\-excludeconfigs, \-\-noconfigs\fR
Do not install configuration files.
.TP
\fB\-\-nohdrchk\fR
Don't verify database header(s) when retrieved.

.SH Debugging

.TP
\fB-d, \-\-debug\fR
Print debugging information.
.TP
\fB\-\-deploops\fR
Print dependency loops as warning.
.TP
\fB\-\-fsmdebug\fR
Print debuging information of payload handling code.
.TP
\fB\-\-rpmfcdebug\fR
Print debug information about files packaged.
.TP
\fB\-\-rpmiodebug\fR
Print debug information about file IO.
.TP
\fB\-\-stats\fR
Print runtime statistics of often used functions. 

.SH Obsolete Options
.TP
\fB-K, \-\-checksig\fR
See and use rpmkeys(8).
.TP
\fB\-\-nodocs\fR
Do not install documentation.
Use \fB\-\-excludedocs\fR instead.
.TP
\fB\-\-promoteepoch\fR
Enable obsolete epoch handling used in rpm 3.x time frame.
.TP
\fB\-\-prtpkts\fR
OBSOLETE! Used to print the packages containing and representing the pgp keys for debugging purposes.
