.TH "RPMINSTALL" "8" "29 June 2010" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME
rpminstall \- RPM Package Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS

.SS "INSTALLING, UPGRADING, AND REMOVING PACKAGES:"
.PP

\fBrpminstall\fR {\fB-i|--install\fR} [\fBinstall-options\fR] \fB\fIPACKAGE_FILE\fB\fR\fI ...\fR

\fBrpminstall\fR {\fB-U|--upgrade\fR} [\fBinstall-options\fR] \fB\fIPACKAGE_FILE\fB\fR\fI ...\fR

\fBrpminstall\fR {\fB-F|--freshen\fR} [\fBinstall-options\fR] \fB\fIPACKAGE_FILE\fB\fR\fI ...\fR

\fBrpminstall\fR {\fB-e|--erase\fR} [\fB--allmatches\fR] [\fB--nodeps\fR] [\fB--noscripts\fR]
    [\fB--notriggers\fR] [\fB--test\fR] \fB\fIPACKAGE_NAME\fB\fR\fI\ ...\fR

.SS "install-options"
.PP

 [\fB--aid\fR] [\fB--allfiles\fR] [\fB--badreloc\fR] [\fB--excludepath \fIOLDPATH\fB\fR]
 [\fB--excludedocs\fR] [\fB--force\fR] [\fB-h,--hash\fR]
 [\fB--ignoresize\fR] [\fB--ignorearch\fR] [\fB--ignoreos\fR]
 [\fB--includedocs\fR] [\fB--justdb\fR] [\fB--nodeps\fR]
 [\fB--nodigest\fR] [\fB--nosignature\fR] [\fB--nosuggest\fR]
 [\fB--noorder\fR] [\fB--noscripts\fR] [\fB--notriggers\fR]
 [\fB--oldpackage\fR] [\fB--percent\fR] [\fB--prefix \fINEWPATH\fB\fR]
 [\fB--relocate \fIOLDPATH\fB=\fINEWPATH\fB\fR]
 [\fB--replacefiles\fR] [\fB--replacepkgs\fR]
 [\fB--test\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.SS "INSTALL AND UPGRADE OPTIONS"
.PP
In these options, \fIPACKAGE_FILE\fR can be either \fBrpm\fR binary
file or ASCII package manifest (see \fBPACKAGE SELECTION OPTIONS\fR), and
may be specified as an
\fBftp\fR or
\fBhttp\fR URL,
in which case the package will be downloaded before being
installed. See \fBFTP/HTTP OPTIONS\fR
for information on \fBrpm\fR's internal
\fBftp\fR and
\fBhttp\fR
client support.
.PP
The general form of an rpm install command is 
.PP
\fBrpm\fR {\fB-i|--install\fR} [\fBinstall-options\fR] \fB\fIPACKAGE_FILE\fB\fR\fI ...\fR
.PP
This installs a new package.
.PP
The general form of an rpm upgrade command is 
.PP
\fBrpm\fR {\fB-U|--upgrade\fR} [\fBinstall-options\fR] \fB\fIPACKAGE_FILE\fB\fR\fI ...\fR
.PP
This upgrades or installs the package currently installed
to a newer version.  This is the same as install, except
all other version(s) of the package are removed after the
new package is installed.
.PP
\fBrpm\fR {\fB-F|--freshen\fR} [\fBinstall-options\fR] \fB\fIPACKAGE_FILE\fB\fR\fI ...\fR
.PP
This will upgrade packages, but only ones for which an earlier version is
installed.
.PP
.TP
\fB--aid\fR
Add suggested packages to the transaction set when needed.
.TP
\fB--allfiles\fR
Installs or upgrades all the missingok files in the package,
regardless if they exist.
.TP
\fB--badreloc\fR
Used with \fB--relocate\fR, permit relocations on
all file paths, not just those \fIOLDPATH\fR's
included in the binary package relocation hint(s).
.TP
\fB--excludepath \fIOLDPATH\fB\fR
Don't install files whose name begins with
\fIOLDPATH\fR.
.TP
\fB--excludedocs\fR
Don't install any files which are marked as documentation
(which includes man pages and texinfo documents).
.TP
\fB--force\fR
Same as using
\fB--replacepkgs\fR,
\fB--replacefiles\fR, and
\fB--oldpackage\fR.
.TP
\fB-h, --hash\fR
Print 50 hash marks as the package archive is unpacked.
Use with \fB-v|--verbose\fR for a nicer display.
.TP
\fB--ignoresize\fR
Don't check mount file systems for sufficient disk space before
installing this package.
.TP
\fB--ignorearch\fR
Allow installation or upgrading even if the architectures
of the binary package and host don't match.
.TP
\fB--ignoreos\fR
Allow installation or upgrading even if the operating
systems of the binary package and host don't match.
.TP
\fB--includedocs\fR
Install documentation files. This is the default behavior.
.TP
\fB--justdb\fR
Update only the database, not the filesystem.
.TP
\fB--nodigest\fR
Don't verify package or header digests when reading.
.TP
\fB--nomanifest\fR
Don't process non-package files as manifests.
.TP
\fB--nosignature\fR
Don't verify package or header signatures when reading.
.TP
\fB--nodeps\fR
Don't do a dependency check before installing or upgrading
a package.
.TP
\fB--nosuggest\fR
Don't suggest package(s) that provide a missing dependency.
.TP
\fB--noorder\fR
Don't reorder the packages for an install. The list of
packages would normally be reordered to satisfy dependencies.
.TP
\fB--noscripts\fR
.TP
\fB--nopre\fR
.TP
\fB--nopost\fR
.TP
\fB--nopreun\fR
.TP
\fB--nopostun\fR
Don't execute the scriptlet of the same name.
The \fB--noscripts\fR option is equivalent to

\fB--nopre\fR
\fB--nopost\fR
\fB--nopreun\fR
\fB--nopostun\fR

and turns off the execution of the corresponding
\fB%pre\fR,
\fB%post\fR,
\fB%preun\fR, and
\fB%postun\fR
scriptlet(s).
.TP
\fB--notriggers\fR
.TP
\fB--notriggerin\fR
.TP
\fB--notriggerun\fR
.TP
\fB--notriggerpostun\fR
Don't execute any trigger scriptlet of the named type.
The \fB--notriggers\fR option is equivalent to

\fB--notriggerin\fR
\fB--notriggerun\fR
\fB--notriggerpostun\fR

and turns off execution of the corresponding
\fB%triggerin\fR,
\fB%triggerun\fR, and
\fB%triggerpostun\fR
scriptlet(s).
.TP
\fB--oldpackage\fR
Allow an upgrade to replace a newer package with an older one.
.TP
\fB--percent\fR
Print percentages as files are unpacked from the package archive.
This is intended to make \fBrpm\fR easy to run from
other tools.
.TP
\fB--prefix \fINEWPATH\fB\fR
For relocatable binary packages, translate all file paths that
start with the installation prefix in the package relocation hint(s)
to \fINEWPATH\fR.
.TP
\fB--relocate \fIOLDPATH\fB=\fINEWPATH\fB\fR
For relocatable binary packages, translate all file paths
that start with \fIOLDPATH\fR in the
package relocation hint(s) to \fINEWPATH\fR.
This option can be used repeatedly if several
\fIOLDPATH\fR's in the package are to
be relocated.
.TP
\fB--replacefiles\fR
Install the packages even if they replace files from other,
already installed, packages.
.TP
\fB--replacepkgs\fR
Install the packages even if some of them are already installed
on this system.
.TP
\fB--test\fR
Do not install the package, simply check for and report
potential conflicts.
.SS "ERASE OPTIONS"
.PP
The general form of an rpm erase command is 
.PP

\fBrpm\fR {\fB-e|--erase\fR} [\fB--allmatches\fR] [\fB--nodeps\fR] [\fB--noscripts\fR] [\fB--notriggers\fR] [\fB--test\fR] \fB\fIPACKAGE_NAME\fB\fR\fI ...\fR

.PP
The following options may also be used:
.TP
\fB--allmatches\fR
Remove all versions of the package which match
\fIPACKAGE_NAME\fR. Normally an
error is issued if \fIPACKAGE_NAME\fR
matches multiple packages.
.TP
\fB--nodeps\fR
Don't check dependencies before uninstalling the packages.
.TP
\fB--noscripts\fR
.TP
\fB--nopreun\fR
.TP
\fB--nopostun\fR
Don't execute the scriptlet of the same name.
The \fB--noscripts\fR option during package erase is
equivalent to

\fB--nopreun\fR
\fB--nopostun\fR

and turns off the execution of the corresponding
\fB%preun\fR, and
\fB%postun\fR
scriptlet(s).
.TP
\fB--notriggers\fR
.TP
\fB--notriggerun\fR
.TP
\fB--notriggerpostun\fR
Don't execute any trigger scriptlet of the named type.
The \fB--notriggers\fR option is equivalent to

\fB--notriggerun\fR
\fB--notriggerpostun\fR

and turns off execution of the corresponding
\fB%triggerun\fR, and
\fB%triggerpostun\fR
scriptlet(s).
.TP
\fB--test\fR
Don't really uninstall anything, just go through the motions.
Useful in conjunction with the \fB-vv\fR option
for debugging.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.nf
\fBpopt\fR(3),
\fBrpm\fR(8),
\fBrpmdb\fR(8),
\fBrpmkeys\fR(8),
\fBrpmsign\fR(8),
\fBrpmquery\fR(8),
\fBrpmverify\fR(8),
\fBrpm2cpio\fR(8),
\fBrpmbuild\fR(8),
\fBrpmspec\fR(8),
.fi

\fBrpm --help\fR - as rpm supports customizing the options via popt aliases 
it's impossible to guarantee that what's described in the manual matches 
what's available.


\fBhttp://www.rpm.org/ <URL:http://www.rpm.org/>
\fR
.SH "AUTHORS"

.nf
Marc Ewing <marc@redhat.com>
Jeff Johnson <jbj@redhat.com>
Erik Troan <ewt@redhat.com>
Panu Matilainen <pmatilai@redhat.com>
.fi
