.TH "RPMVERIFY" "8" "29 Octover 2010" "Red Hat, Inc"
.SH NAME
rpmverify \- RPM Verification Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "VERIFYING PACKAGES:"
.PP

\fBrpm\fR {\fB-V|--verify\fR} [\fBselect-options\fR] [\fBverify-options\fR]

.SS "select-options"
.PP


 [\fB\fIPACKAGE_NAME\fB\fR] [\fB-a,--all\fR] [\fB-f,--file \fIFILE\fB\fR]
 [\fB-g,--group \fIGROUP\fB\fR] {\fB-p,--package \fIPACKAGE_FILE\fB\fR]
 [\fB--hdrid \fISHA1\fB\fR] [\fB--pkgid \fIMD5\fB\fR] [\fB--tid \fITID\fB\fR]
 [\fB--querybynumber \fIHDRNUM\fB\fR] [\fB--triggeredby \fIPACKAGE_NAME\fB\fR]
 [\fB--whatprovides \fICAPABILITY\fB\fR] [\fB--whatrequires \fICAPABILITY\fB\fR]

.SS "verify-options"
.PP


 [\fB--nodeps\fR] [\fB--nofiles\fR] [\fB--noscripts\fR]
 [\fB--nodigest\fR] [\fB--nosignature\fR]
 [\fB--nolinkto\fR] [\fB--nofiledigest\fR] [\fB--nosize\fR] [\fB--nouser\fR]
 [\fB--nogroup\fR] [\fB--nomtime\fR] [\fB--nomode\fR] [\fB--nordev\fR]
 [\fB--nocaps\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

.PP
Verifying a package compares information about the installed files in
the package with information about the files taken from the package
metadata stored in the rpm database.  Among other things, verifying
compares the size, MD5 sum, permissions, type, owner and group of
each file.  Any discrepancies are displayed.
Files that were not installed from the package, for example,
documentation files excluded on installation using the
"\fB--excludedocs\fR" option,
will be silently ignored.
.PP
The package selection options are the same as for package
querying (including package manifest files as arguments).
Other options unique to verify mode are:
.TP
\fB--nodeps\fR
Don't verify dependencies of packages.
.TP
\fB--nodigest\fR
Don't verify package or header digests when reading.
.TP
\fB--nofiles\fR
Don't verify any attributes of package files.
.TP
\fB--noscripts\fR
Don't execute the \fB%verifyscript\fR scriptlet (if any).
.TP
\fB--nosignature\fR
Don't verify package or header signatures when reading.
.TP
\fB--nolinkto\fR
.TP
\fB--nofiledigest\fR (formerly \fB--nomd5\fR)
.TP
\fB--nosize\fR
.TP
\fB--nouser\fR
.TP
\fB--nogroup\fR
.TP
\fB--nomtime\fR
.TP
\fB--nomode\fR
.TP
\fB--nordev\fR
Don't verify the corresponding file attribute.
.PP
The format of the output is a string of 8 characters, a possible
attribute marker:

.nf
\fBc\fR \fB%config\fR configuration file.
\fBd\fR \fB%doc\fR documentation file.
\fBg\fR \fB%ghost\fR file (i.e. the file contents are not included in the package payload).
\fBl\fR \fB%license\fR license file.
\fBr\fR \fB%readme\fR readme file.
.fi

from the package header, followed by the file name.
Each of the 8 characters denotes the result of a comparison of
attribute(s) of the file to the value of those attribute(s) recorded
in the database.  A single
"\fB.\fR" (period)
means the test passed, while a single
"\fB?\fR" (question mark)
indicates the test could not be performed (e.g. file permissions
prevent reading). Otherwise, the (mnemonically
em\fBB\fRoldened) character denotes failure of
the corresponding \fB--verify\fR test:

.nf
\fBS\fR file \fBS\fRize differs
\fBM\fR \fBM\fRode differs (includes permissions and file type)
\fB5\fR MD\fB5\fR sum differs
\fBD\fR \fBD\fRevice major/minor number mismatch
\fBL\fR read\fBL\fRink(2) path mismatch
\fBU\fR \fBU\fRser ownership differs
\fBG\fR \fBG\fRroup ownership differs
\fBT\fR m\fBT\fRime differs
\fBP\fR ca\fBP\fRabilities differ
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.nf
\fBpopt\fR(3),
\fBrpm\fR(8),
\fBrpmdb\fR(8),
\fBrpmkeys\fR(8),
\fBrpmsign\fR(8),
\fBrpmquery\fR(8),
\fBrpm2cpio\fR(8),
\fBrpmbuild\fR(8),
\fBrpmspec\fR(8),
.fi

\fBrpmverify --help\fR - as rpm supports customizing the options via popt aliases 
it's impossible to guarantee that what's described in the manual matches 
what's available.


\fBhttp://www.rpm.org/ <URL:http://www.rpm.org/>
\fR
.SH "AUTHORS"

.nf
Marc Ewing <marc@redhat.com>
Jeff Johnson <jbj@redhat.com>
Erik Troan <ewt@redhat.com>
Panu Matilainen <pmatilai@redhat.com>
.fi
