.TH "RPM-PLUGINS" "8" "29 Jan 2020" "Red Hat, Inc."
.SH NAME
rpm-plugins \- Plugins for the RPM Package Manager

.SH Description

RPM plugins provide functionality that is not suited to be used
everywhere. They may not be built or shipped on some platforms or may
not be installed or be disabled on some systems.

This allows plugins to interface with systems that may not acceptable
as a dependency for RPM and to provide functionality that may be
unwanted under some circumstances.

For now the plugin API is internal only. So there is a limited number of
plugins in the RPM sources.

.SH Configuration

Some plugins can be configured by specific macros or influenced by
command line parameters. But most can only be turned on or off. See
the plugin's man page for details.

Plugins are controlled by a macro \fI%__transaction_NAME\fR which is
set to the location of the plugin file. Undefining the macro
or setting it to \fI%{nil}\fR will prevent the plugin from being run.

This can be done on the RPM command line e.g. with
\fB--undefine=__transaction_syslog\fR. To disable a plugin
permantently drop a file in \fI/etc/rpm/\fR that contains

__transaction_NAME %{nil}

Another option is to remove the plugin from the system if it is
packaged in its own sub package.

For some operations it may be desirable to disable all plugins at
once. This can be done by passing \fB--noplugins\fR to \fBrpm\fR at
the command line.

.SH SEE ALSO
.IR rpm (8)
.IR rpm-plugin-audit (8)
.IR rpm-plugin-ima (8)
.IR rpm-plugin-prioreset (8)
.IR rpm-plugin-selinux (8)
.IR rpm-plugin-syslog (8)
.IR rpm-plugin-systemd-inhibit (8)
